model_card_template.md, before:

# Model Card

For additional information see the Model Card paper: https://arxiv.org/pdf/1810.03993.pdf

## Model Details

The model was developed by Daniel Benjamim using XGBoost Classifier with default hyperparameters. The final model was selected after performing grid search.

## Intended Use

This model is intended for classification tasks on publicly available Census Bureau data. Its purpose is to predict whether someone's salary is below or over 50K.

## Training Data

The training data was obtained from the UCI Machine Learning Repository (https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/census+income).

The original dataset contained 32,561 rows, but outliers and rows with unidentified class values were removed, resulting in a dataset with 30,162 rows. To address the imbalanced target class, an oversampling technique was applied. The data was then divided into five equal-sized sets using K-fold cross-validation.

Before training, the numerical features were normalized, the categorical features were converted to dummy variables, and the target class was binarized.

## Evaluation Data

Similar to the training data, the evaluation data - around 25% of the original data - underwent preprocessing steps, including normalization of numerical features, conversion of categorical features to dummy variables, and binarization of the target class.

## Metrics

The model was evaluated using precision, recall, and F1 score. The obtained scores are:

* precision: 0.6950281906714505
*  recall:   0.7313915857605178
*    f1:     0.7127463863337713

## Ethical Considerations

...

## Caveats and Recommendations

...

Commit message:

request file created, model card updated

model_card_template.md, after:

# Model Card

For additional information see the Model Card paper: https://arxiv.org/pdf/1810.03993.pdf

## Model Details

The model was developed by Daniel Benjamim using XGBoost Classifier with default hyperparameters. The final model was selected after performing grid search.

## Intended Use

This model is intended for classification tasks on publicly available Census Bureau data. Its purpose is to predict whether someone's salary is below or over 50K.

## Training Data

The training data was obtained from the UCI Machine Learning Repository (https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/census+income).

The original dataset contained 32,561 rows, but outliers and rows with unidentified class values were removed, resulting in a dataset with 30,162 rows. To address the imbalanced target class, an oversampling technique was applied. The data was then divided into five equal-sized sets using K-fold cross-validation.

Before training, the numerical features were normalized, the categorical features were converted to dummy variables, and the target class was binarized.

## Evaluation Data

Similar to the training data, the evaluation data - around 25% of the original data - underwent preprocessing steps, including normalization of numerical features, conversion of categorical features to dummy variables, and binarization of the target class.

## Metrics

The model was evaluated using precision, recall, and F1 score. The obtained scores are:

* precision: 0.6950281906714505
*  recall:   0.7313915857605178
*    f1:     0.7127463863337713

## Ethical Considerations

No ethical concerns.

## Caveats and Recommendations

The machine learning model is a grid-search optimized XGBoost model trained using KFold cross-validation and BorderlineSMOTE for oversampling. The model is trained using the script found in `ml/train_model.py`, and the trained model is saved as a serialized `.pkl` file for later use.

Performance of the model on data slices (particularly for categorical features) is also assessed and outputted for review. This functionality can be found within `ml/model.py`.

Unit tests for various functions in the model code can be found under the `starter` directory.
